URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/light-of-the-past/

Light of the past – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Light of the past
24. 07. 2015 – 05. 08. 2015
Within the “Ohrid Summer Festival”, the 60th solo exhibition of the famous Macedonian painter Stefan Hadzi-Nikolov, who has left a special stamp on the art of the Republic of Macedonia in the last three decades, was opened
With his special talent and his wonderful approach to art, as well as  through his exhibitions he has imposed to the Macedonian audience, and to the audience in the neighboring countries.
The artist Hadzi-Nikolov noted that Ohrid means a lot to him as an artist and proof for this is that his 60th solo exhibition is organized right there.
Ohrid, after Skopje is a city where he had most exhibitions. His first exhibition in Ohrid was in 1988. In 2000 he exhibited in the House of Urania, in 2009 and 2015 in the House of Robev Family. The current exhibition presents works made in recent years, which were never exhibited in Ohrid, most of them nor in any gallery. This exhibition of around thirty paintings in oil on canvas is actually a section of its multi-decade career.
“Light of the past” in the house of Robevci
Share this:
Post
Author
Muzej Ohrid
Posted on
July 24, 2015
February 23, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Exibitions
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
Paintings and works of art on the occasion of May 18th, the International Museum Day.
Next
Next post:
St. Clement of Ohrid and his presentations in Art
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid