URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/polish-school-of-poster/

Polish School of Poster – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Polish School of Poster
14. 10. 2016
The rich collection of posters that Polish Embassy in Macedonia has brought in the country is available for Ohrid artistic audience in the exhibition at the Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov. Works by the most prominent Polish poster artists of the so-called golden years from 1950 to the present are on display. For decades, no public event, film, festival, concert, theater play is presented without a poster. With the invention of threecolored lithographic process in 1880, by French graphic artist Jules Cheret, the poster at the end of the 19th century in Europe becomes the art of the great urban landscape. This new means of communication especially was developed with the new graphics solutions and great innovation of the first masters of the poster, Henri de Toulouse Lautrec, Leonetto Capielo, Alphonse Mucha, Eugen Graset.
The Polish poster is permitted form of artistic expression and owing to Polish graphic artists Poland became world famous for the art of the poster. Polish poster reaches a level of national art thanks to the extremely talented graphic artists as Tomashevski, Lenica, Majewski, Mlodozhenjec, Starovjejski, Shvjezhi and many others.
In Warsaw in 1968 was opened the first museum of the poster in the world, the Museum in Wilanow as a part of the National Museum in Warsaw whose collection has more than 60.000 works and is also one of the largest collections of posters in the world. This exhibition is realized through the project “Museum Link” of of the Museum of the City of Skopje, in cooperation with 18 other museums, including NI Institute and Museum-Ohrid.
The Polish school of poster is not only the tip of Polish creativity and cultural life after the Second World War, but also serious representative in the European cultural flows. The exhibition was presented in galleries and museums in several cities around our country.
Polish School of Poster in Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Share this:
Post
Author
go ri
Posted on
October 14, 2016
February 23, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Exibitions
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
Inscriptions, a woman in space
Next
Next post:
Exhibition of Small Format Association of Fine Artists of Macedonia
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid