URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/portraits-of-st-clement-of-ohrid-in-the-art-in-macedonia-and-neighboring-countries/

Portraits of St. Clement of Ohrid in the art in Macedonia and neighboring countries – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Portraits of St. Clement of Ohrid in the art in Macedonia and neighboring countries
09. 08. 2016 – 20. 08. 2016
Within the activities of the Macedonian Academy of Arts and Sciences to mark the 1100 anniversary of the reposal of St. Clement of Ohrid, on August 9, 2016, in the cathedral church of St. Sophia in Ohrid an exhibition of copies of frescoes depicting the saint from the churches and monasteries in Macedonia and neighboring countries was opened. The exhibition actually consisted of fresco copies that on May 24 the same year, in organization of NI Institute and Museum-Ohrid, on the occasion of the traditional manifestation “Macedonia Honoring St. Cyril”, was opened at the Pontifical University Urbaniana at the Vatican, complemented with several other exhibits, copies of frescoes and photos. This same exhibition earlier was on display in the premises of the Macedonian Academy of Arts and Sciences in Skopje.
“Portraits of St. Clement of Ohrid in the art in Macedonia and neighboring countries” in the church. Sophia in Ohrid
Share this:
Post
Author
Muzej Ohrid
Posted on
August 9, 2016
March 2, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Exibitions
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
Symphonic Imagination
Next
Next post:
Inscriptions, a woman in space
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid