URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/sounds-of-the-chisel/

Sounds of the chisel – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Sounds of the chisel
09. 09. 2013
In the exhibition hall of the House of Robev Family in Ohrid, rare specimens of modern Ohrid woodcarvings are exposed in front of the Macedonian and foreign public. The exhibition titled “Sounds of the chisel,” which presented works by 12 artists of differing generations made in various techniques, was organized after lengthy, decade break.
The carving is a craft with a long tradition in Ohrid. Here a carving school existed for decades, and after its closure the youth trained in the studio of EMO Company in Ohrid. In one period, there was a carving studio in the Institute and Museum-Ohrid. Now there are a few individuals that create carvings, two of them having studios right on the street which is considered the most interesting bu its old city architecture and most sacred that leads to the cathedral church of St. Sophia and many other sacral monuments in Ohrid.
The woodcarvings made of Ohrid masters are extremely valuable works of art, which are highly appreciated not only in Macedonia but also beyond. Their works adorn many spiritual temples and institutions.
Exhibition “Sounds of the chisel” contemporary Ohrid woodcarving in the House of Robev Family
Share this:
Post
Author
go ri
Posted on
September 9, 2013
February 23, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Exibitions
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
Aprons and Stockings
Next
Next post:
Golden faces of the Macedonian kings-Macedonians and Celts from Ohrid region
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid