URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/st-clement-of-ohrid-and-his-presentations-in-art/

St. Clement of Ohrid and his presentations in Art – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
St. Clement of Ohrid and his presentations in Art
23. 05. 2016 – 06. 06. 2016
The 48th traditional manifestation “Macedonia Honoring St. Cyril”, in 2016 was held in Rome, Italy and was marked by the celebration of two significant anniversaries, 1130 years since the arrival of St. Clement of Ohrid in our city and 1100 years of his reposal. On this occasion, NI Institute and Museum-Ohrid organized appropriate exhibition that was opened on May 23rd at the Pontifical University Urbaniana at the Vatican.
The exhibition presented 18 copies of frescoes depicting St. Clement, alone or together with other saints from the churches in the Republic of Macedonia and neighboring Balkan countries. There were also displayed five icons from 13th to 19th centuries from the collection of our institution, including the oldest painted icon portraying St. Clement of Ohrid, which, along with the wooden relief icon, is the oldest icon depicting the patron of Ohrid.
Part of the exhibition were a number of photographs of churches where in a certain period of the history the relics of the saint have rested, photos of the relics of the saint, his grave at Plaoshnik, as well as photographs of contemporary works, monumental sculptures presenting this saint.
“St. Clement of Ohrid and his presentations in Art” at the Pontifical University Planners Vatican
Share this:
Post
Author
Muzej Ohrid
Posted on
May 23, 2016
March 2, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Exibitions
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
Light of the past
Next
Next post:
Unknown territory
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid