URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/the-forum-of-slavic-cultures-announces-the-winners-of-the-2025-ziva-awards-this-year-intrebinje-bosnia-and-herzegovina/

The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Between 8 and 11 October 2025, the Forum of Slavic Cultures (FSK) celebrated the 11th edition of the Živa Award with an international conference and the announcement of the winners in Trebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The Živa Award for the Best Slavic Museum, named after the Slavic goddess Živa who symbolises life, vitality and fertility, was established in 2014 by the FSK International Foundation. It was the initiative of FSK’s director, Dr Andreja Rihter, who is also the leader of the Živa Award project. Since then, the Živa Awards for the Best Slavic Museum and the Best Slavic Heritage Site (introduced in 2018) have become a unique transnational cultural platform dedicated to promoting the protection, preservation, education, communication and social role of Slavic museums and heritage sites. Today, the network has grown into a significant Slavic community comprising almost 250 museums and heritage sites across 13 Slavic countries.
The 2025 Živa Award event in Trebinje was held under the auspices of Nikola Selaković, Minister of Culture of the Republic of Serbia and President of the FSK Board, who contributed a special monetary prize for the Best Slavic Heritage Site winner.
The Živa Award and conference were hosted by the Municipality of Trebinje, represented by Mayor Mirko Ćurić, who provided substantial support alongside the director of the Museum of Herzegovina in Trebinje, Ivana Grujić, and several other organisers, including Sarita Vujković, director of the renowned Museum of Contemporary Art in Banja Luka and a member of the Živa Award Jury.
The fact that over 140 participants from 10 Slavic countries and 3 others took part in this event points to the vitality of the heritage community as well as the Živa Award’s growing reputation in Europe and beyond.
A special highlight of this year’s Živa edition was the introduction of the new Živa Award for Best in Preserving Slavic Heritage Worldwide. This new award broadens the Živa Award’s mission beyond the borders of the Slavic countries represented by the FSK. It recognises initiatives that preserve Slavic cultural heritage and identity worldwide. Even in its first year, four museums from Italy, Hungary, and the USA competed for this new award.
Other highlights included this year’s conference, Echoes of Heritage and the Future of Museums, which featured keynote lectures from distinguished experts Alessio Mazzolotti (Italy), Sandro Debono (Malta) and Roberto Zancan (Italy/Switzerland), as well as presentations by the 32 nominated museums. These presentations showcased the vital roles these museums play in bringing cultural heritage to life. They have become living, inclusive spaces of memory, dialogue and creativity. They are advocates of remembering the past in order to shape the future, time travellers who use technology, visual interpretation and storytelling to bring history to life, chroniclers who engage communities and record our present, and visionaries who embrace innovation and identify new trends to build a more resilient and responsible future. The museums have also demonstrated an awareness of the challenges and responsibilities ahead, including digital transformation, virtual exhibitions, 3D scanning, artificial intelligence, sustainability and environmental care.
The 2025 Živa Award culminated on 10 October in Trebinje with an awards ceremony. This year, the Živa Award Jury – composed of 16 museum experts from various Slavic countries and the European Museum Academy (EMA) – honoured 13 museums from 11 countries with awards, recognitions and special diplomas.
The recipients of the Živa Awards 2025 are:
Živa Award 2025 for the Best Slavic Museum was granted to the Croatian Natural History Museum, Zagreb, Croatia
Živa Award 2025 for the Best Slavic Heritage Site was conferred on NI Institute for Protection of Monuments of Culture and Museum – Ohrid, Ohrid, North Macedonia.
Honourable Mention was granted to Lety u Písku. Memorial to the Holocaust of the Roma and Sinti in Bohemia, Písek, Czech Republic
Special Recognitions were awarded to:
Sybir Memorial Museum, Białystok, Poland: for Creativity
House of the Halubje Bell Ringers, Viškovo, Croatia: for Sustainability.
Regional Museum of Pljevlja, Pljevlja, Montenegro: for Leadership and Team Efficiency.
Armory Museum in Liw Castle, Liw, Poland: for Attention to Visitors and Openness.
Little Carpathian Museum in Pezinok, Pezinok, Slovakia: for Storytelling
Diplomas:
Special Diploma of Excellence was granted to:
Žitomislić Museum, Žitomislići, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Diploma for Preserving Cultural Heritage Worldwide was conferred on:
Kanizsai Dorottya Museum, Mohács, Hungary
Fisheries Museum of the Trieste Littoral, Santa Croce di Trieste, Italy
Museum of the People of the Resia Valley, Stolvizza, Italy
National Czech & Slovak Museum & Library Cedar Rapids, Iowa, USA
Forum of Slavic Cultures www.fsk.si
Contact:
Dr Andreja Rihter
Director
Forum of Slavic Cultures
Cesta 27. aprila 47, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia
M: + 386 41 798 221 E: andreja.rihter@fsk.si
Share this:
Post
Author
Muzej Ohrid
Posted on
October 11, 2025
October 12, 2025
Categories
Events
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid