URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/visit-of-the-reactive-monitoring-mission-of-unesco-icomos-iucn/

Visit of the reactive monitoring mission of UNESCO/ICOMOS/IUCN – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Visit of the reactive monitoring mission of UNESCO/ICOMOS/IUCN
09. 04. 2017 – 14. 04. 2017
From 9 to 14 April 2017 a reactive monitoring mission UNESCO/ ICOMOS / IUCN stayed in our country to inspect the implemented activities and to assess how their recommendations on the scope of construction activities and their impact on the environment and cultural heritage if the world heritage site “Natural and Cultural Heritage of the Ohrid Region” are obeyed.
Mission members: Ms. Anna Sidorenko, representative of the World Heritage Center of UNESCO, Ms. Maja Vasiljevic of the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature, an advisory body of UNESCO) and Mr. Pierre-Marie Tricaud, representative of ICOMOS (International Council of Monuments and Sites, an advisory body of UNESCO) today had a working meeting in NI Institute for protection of monuments of Culture and Museum- Ohrid. According to Ms. Sidorenko, the goal of the meeting was to obtain information and to review efforts, projects and progress in their implementation by the central and local government in the protection of cultural heritage and implementation of remarks by UNESCO from the 40th session held in Istanbul last year. After the monitoring by the mission, as well as meetings and consultations that follow, they will present their further guidance and recommendations.
Visit of the reactive monitoring mission of UNESCO/ICOMOS/IUCN
Share this:
Post
Author
Muzej Ohrid
Posted on
April 9, 2017
March 2, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Other
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
Visit of the judges for the “Zhiva” award
Next
Next post:
27th traditional exhibition on occasion of May 18th, the International Museum Day
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid