URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/category/events-en/lectures/

Lectures – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Category:
Lectures
Summer School of Architecture
25. 06. 2017 – 02. 07. 2017
Last night, the fifth session of the International Summer School of Architecture, organized by the Faculty of Architecture and Design at the University “American College” in Skopje and NI Institute for Protection of Monuments of Culture and Museum-Ohrid was opened in Center for Culture “Grigor Prlichev” in Ohrid.
The dean, Prof Dr Mishko Ralev and the head of the school, Vladimir Deskov, addressed at the opening ceremony, after which the Slovenian architect Dean Lah gave a lecture.
After the act of opening and the lecture of Dean Lah, the participants of the Summer School, together with the organizers, the hosts and the guests, had the opportunity for unconventional talks and friendship at a small cocktail, organized in the area of the Lapidarium, next to the Robev family house.
The Summer School, which this year’s theme is “Natural Systems” will be led by the architect Dean Lah, co-founder and partner in the renowned architectural studio “Enota” from Ljubljana and will last until July 2. Guests of the school will be the architects Kreshimir Rogina and Vinko Penezic from Croatia, as well as Jurij Lichen from Slovenia. Students of architecture from the universities “American College” and “St. Cyril and Methodius” will take participation at the school. Within the school, lectures will be given by guest lecturers, and on Saturday, 01. 07. 2017, a public presentation of student projects will be held.
Opening of the fifth International Summer School of Architecture
Author
Muzej Ohrid
Posted on
June 25, 2017
March 2, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Lectures
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid