URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/exhibition-intaglio-from-print-nest-studio/

Exhibition “Intaglio” from Print Nest Studio + – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Exhibition “Intaglio” from Print Nest Studio +
16. 06. 2017 – 29. 06. 2017
The exhibition “Intaglio” that was open on 16. 06. 2017 in the Art Gallery “Robevci”consists of graphics works of the authors from “Print Nest Studio” from Sofia, Bulgaria. Six young artists both from Macedonia and Bulgaria, who cherish the traditional graphic techniques, established their own studio in Sofia.
The studio combines different personalities, people with different abilities and attitude to life, but with a common goal in the art. The feature in the graphics of the young authors Zoran Mishe, Ivan Mateev, Vasil Angelov, Goran Trichkovski, Pavel Celkoski and Iva Dimitrova.is to build the image in the range of black and white. They use mainly traditional graphic techniques for creating forms and spaces, conditions, thoughts and feelings. The thematic register is diverse and multi-layered. The forms vary in possible technical range from the accuracy of the miniature to monumental. The exhibition will last until June 29.
Exhibition “Intaglio” from Print Nest Studio +
Share this:
Post
Author
Muzej Ohrid
Posted on
June 16, 2017
March 2, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Exibitions
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
Inside garden
Next
Next post:
Summer School of Architecture
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid