URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/exhibition-of-pictures-by-stefan-hadzi-nikolov/

Exhibition of pictures by Stefan Hadzi-Nikolov – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Exhibition of pictures by Stefan Hadzi-Nikolov
14. 07. 2017 – 27. 07. 2017
Within the program of this year’s edition of the Ohrid Summer Festival and as a part of the summer exhibition program of the NI Institute and Museum-Ohrid, the exhibition of pictures by Stefan Hadzi-Nikolov was opened at the Gallery Robevci in Ohrid.
This renowned Macedonian painter, who presented himself in the same space in Ohrid two years ago with his 60th solo exhibition titled “Light from the Past”, presented at this exhibition his latest works from the rich opus.
So far, Hadzi-Nikolov has realized many solo exhibitions, not only in Macedonia, but also around the world, starting from 1982 until today.
Hadzi-Nikolov participated in more than 100 group exhibitions in the country and abroad. He is a participant of several international fine art colonies. From 2002 to 2006 he participated at the Art Exhibition “Impression” in Plovdiv, Bulgaria.
Stefan Hadzi-Nikolov has received numerous awards and prestigious awards in the field of art, confirming his work.
The exhibition of pictures by Stefan Hadzi-Nikolov at the Gallery Robevci in Ohrid.
Share this:
Post
Author
Muzej Ohrid
Posted on
July 14, 2017
March 2, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Exibitions
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
Visit of the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Macedonia, Mr. Robert Alagjozovski
Next
Next post:
Exhibition “Lust for nostalgia” of the Ohrid painter Sasho Blazes
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid