URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/exhibition-lust-for-nostalgia-of-the-ohrid-painter-sasho-blazes/

Exhibition “Lust for nostalgia” of the Ohrid painter Sasho Blazes – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Exhibition “Lust for nostalgia” of the Ohrid painter Sasho Blazes
28. 07. 2017 – 10. 08. 2017
Last night at the Gallery “Robevci” in Ohrid the sixth solo exhibition of the Ohrid painter Sasho Blazes, entitled “Lust for nostalgia”, was opened.
Sasho Blazes was born in Ohrid in 1980, and this is his third solo presentation to the Ohrid audience. In addition to the five solo exhibitions, this artist, who completed his education at the Faculty of Fine Arts in Bucharest, Romania (2002-2006), where he received his MA in 2008, has so far participated in numerous group exhibitions in the country and the world.
His latest cycle of paintings, made in the last few years (2015-2017), consists of a series of portraits that seem to refer to the classical concept and procedure in their creation. These portraits of celebrities and close people are striking through the deconstruction of the represented character, a deconstruction that can be interpreted as a transformation of the actual appearance by penetrating into the structural sediments that construct the person. The author himself, defines the appearance in his previous works as “memories”, “mirrors of reality”, “narratives”, “different realities”, represented through a combination of various coloristic abstract and/or figurative fragments.
In the same time, Blazhe’s color is a pronounced element with its artistic and sign autonomy in resolving the surface of the image and defining the character of the presented physiognomy, and the vibrant coloristic solutions associate to the view in a blurred mirror.
The exhibition will last till 10 August.
Share this:
Post
Author
Muzej Ohrid
Posted on
July 28, 2017
March 2, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Exibitions
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
Exhibition of pictures by Stefan Hadzi-Nikolov
Next
Next post:
VISIT OF THE US SECRETARY OF STATE MR. MIKE POMPEO TO THE ICON GALLERY-OHRID AND THE CHURCH OF THE HOLY MOTHER OF GOD PERIBLEPTOS
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid