URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/paintings-and-works-of-art-on-the-occasion-of-may-18th-the-international-museum-day/

Paintings and works of art on the occasion of May 18th, the International Museum Day. – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Paintings and works of art on the occasion of May 18th, the International Museum Day.
15. 05. 2015 – 31. 05. 2015
Artistic expression through the works of numerous artists from the country and abroad, which in past years had solo exhibitions in this Institution, leave some of their works for the rich collection of NI Institute and Museum-Ohrid.
The exhibition as traditional, and this year jubilee one, the 25th in row, presents asection of art that was presented here, at our institution over the years. We always have quite a lot of works and we have a special criteria that we follow in the selection. We make the selection and always try to represent different techniques. There are graphic artists, sculptors, artists who create oil paintings, acrylic paintings on cardboard, collages. For example, here is a new work by Sergej Cinguloski, who is in Montenegro in this period. Then, we have a photograph of morality by the artist Tina Drcar from Slovenia. This means that we are up to date with modern art.
These artists are presented at the exhibition this year: Maja Raunik-Kirkov, Pande Petrovski, Snezana Grozdanovic, Eng Sion Yeo, Cvetanka Temkova-Ilova, Miroslav Trendafilovski-Miki, Jordan Manasijeski, Svetlana Solodovnikova, Natasa Dimitrijevic, Tina Drcar, Sergej Cinguloski, Emel Mahmoud, Slavica Sekuloski and Vaska Opeloska.
Paintings and works of art on the occasion of May 18th, the International Museum Day.
Share this:
Post
Author
Muzej Ohrid
Posted on
May 15, 2015
March 2, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Exibitions
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
Art of the Macedonian woodcarving-tradition and continuity
Next
Next post:
Light of the past
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid