URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/aprons-and-stockings/

Aprons and Stockings – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Aprons and Stockings
04. 10. 2013
The show was presented another ethnological treasure which has NI Institute and Museum-Ohrid, without which one cannot imagine the full national costume.
The visitors had the unique opportunity to learn about the 15 authentic pairs of socks and aprons from different parts of the country, which speak of enduring artistic creation and testify to the rich tradition and history that possesses this region.
The aprons are rectangular in shape and most of them are shaped in two folds joined horizontally or vertically. Most of them are made of wool, decorated with woven decoration still in the process of weaving and are special handicrafts with striking beauty.
The aprons can be classified into simple ones, intended for everyday use and most decorated ones that are used as part of bridal dresses.
They also depicted the status, and the age of those who wore them. There were also small children’s aprons, aprons for girls, for brides and for adult women. Depending on where they originated, the name of the aprons eas different. Somewhere they were called “bofcha”, “bokcha”, “futa”, “pregacha”, but the purpose of all is the same. They were worn at the waist as safety at work, anbut were also the ornament of folk costume.
Neither folk costume could be complete without wool socks that were worn by both men and women. They show the knitting skill of the Macedonian woman, who knitted socks on five, three or one needle, mainly of wool and rarely with cotton yarn. In terms of coloring, primary colors are red, white and black, with lesser or greater presence of other colors and decoration of geometric and floral motifs. All socks are long to below the knees and richly ornamented from the foot to the top of the male socks and the female ones are the richest decorated from the foot to the ankle, the part most exposed to the eyes, because the other part was covered by a long shirt. The socks were mostly worn in winter days as protection from the cold, but also during holidays, no matter if it was summer or winter.
Exhibition “Aprons and Stockings” in the House of Robev Family
Share this:
Post
Author
go ri
Posted on
April 10, 2013
February 23, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Exibitions
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
Unimagined beauty-icons from Macedonia
Next
Next post:
Sounds of the chisel
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid