URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/byzantium-330-1453/

Byzantium 330-1453 – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Byzantium 330-1453
25. 10. 2008 – 22. 03. 2009
This exhibition was once again staked the splendor of the Byzantine Empire. There were around 323 objects displayed, including icons, original scenes and fragments of wall paintings, micro-mosaics, ivories, enamel, gold and silver. Some of the works had never before been shown to the public. The exhibition presented outstanding works from the treasury of the church of Saint Marc in Venice and rare items from collections across Europe, USA, Russia, Ukraine and Egypt. The exhibition begins with the foundation of Constantinople in 330 AD by the Roman Emperor Constantine the Great and ends with the capture of the city by the Ottoman forces of Sultan Mehmed II in 1453. This was the first major exhibition of Byzantine art in the United Kingdom in the last 50 years.
A total of 136 museums, cultural, scientific, religious and other institutions and private collections from 27 countries around the world were presented with their exhibits at the exhibition, and the Republic of Macedonia was represented by NI Institute and Museum-Ohrid, with eight icons from its collection.
Exhibition “Byzantium 330-1453” at the Royal Academy of Arts in London, United Kingdom
Share this:
Post
Author
Muzej Ohrid
Posted on
October 25, 2008
March 2, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Exibitions
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
Slavic apostles Ss Cyril and Methodius
Next
Next post:
St. Naum of Ohrid icons in the ico painting of the Diocese of Debar and Kichevo from 18th and 19th centuries
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid