URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/ethnological-collection/

Ethnological collection – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Ethnological collection
Ethnological collection is physically divided into two parts, but the objects are complementary and intertwined so it still represents one whole.
One part of the ethnological collection contains objects of the national economy, traditional wooden items of household, tools for processing textile fibers, stylish furniture, traditional metal items of household, traditional jewelry, accessories for smoking, personal belongings, musical instruments, objects of folk customs and craft tools. According to the time of their origin, the objects come from 17th, 19th and 20th century, most dating from the 19th century. Ethnological objects come from Ohrid, and Ohrid region, then Struga and Struga region, Malesia, Debar, Deba-Miyak area, Prilep, Prespa. The collection includes items which are import from different countries: Austria, France, Germany, Bulgaria, Persia and Jerusalem.
Within the collection is the collection of Robev family which has more than 100 items. There are valuable artwork, photos, stylish furniture, personal belongings, household and more. Most of them are presented at the memorial floor in Family Robev House.
Of special importance is the collection of woodcarvings: cabinet, rosettes, stylish furniture-works of masters of the famous Ohrid carving school created in the second half of the 20th century. They are displayed in “shirvan” or the representative room on the top floor of the Family Robev House.
Objects of the ethnological collection also talk about some ancient past times, tradition, lifestyle and customs, about the old crafts, fashion of dressing and decorating, the Oriental, but also impact of Western countries in the urban and rural culture. It is rich material cultural heritage that is very important segment of the identity of our people.
The other part of the ethnological collection contains traditional objects from textiles (household and folk costumes), traditional objects from ceramics, glass, porcelain and national economy-fishing. The items come from the 19th and 20th century. Mainly from Ohrid-Struga region, but there can also be found objects from other parts of Macedonia.
The objects from textiles and household contain everything without which a 19th century house in Ohrid could not be imagined, but certainly but certainly in all those objects, Ohrid carpets that have their own special features and as such are unique in Macedonia, stand out.
The collection of textiles, folk costumes contain complete outfit of a woman from the 19th century, the rich heavy clothes: shirts, vests, aprons. Besides folk costume, the collection abounds with items of urban clothing of the A la Turka and A la Franca types.
Traditional items of pottery, porcelain and glass, the most widely used in the household, were made of ancient potters from Vraneshtica, Resen and Struga. Glass and porcelain items are mainly imported and were the privilege of the rich strata of the population of that time like the family Robev.
Items belonging to the fishery show the craft that was the most prevalent at the Ohrid Lake and the Black Drim River.
Share this:
Post
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid