URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/exhibition-of-fresco-copies-church-embroideries-and-liturgical-items/

Exhibition of fresco copies, church embroideries and liturgical items – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Exhibition of fresco copies, church embroideries and liturgical items
25. 06. 2017 – 30. 06. 2017
By the end of June 2017, another part of the rich heritage from the collections of the NI Institute and Museum-Ohrid was exhibited in the lower space of the Icon Gallery-Ohrid.
It is about twenty frescoes with the images of Slavic Enlighteners Ss. Clement and Naum of Ohrid, but also Ss. Cyril and Methodius and other saints from the churches in Macedonia and neighboring countries, but also one from Rome, Italy. Copies were made mostly in 1966 and 1980, on the occasion of the celebration of the 1050th anniversary of the death of St. Clement of Ohrid (1966) and the opening of the Museum of Slavic Literacy in Ohrid (1980) by the most famous copists of the time, such as Dragomir Jasovic, Zdenka Zivkovic, Nikola Conev and others. Last year, 2016, most of these frescoes were exhibited at the exhibition “St. Clement of Ohrid and his presentations in the art” at the University Urbaniana in the Vatican, as well as at two other exhibitions in Skopje and Ohrid.
Within this exhibition are exhibited a certain number of church embroideries and liturgical items from the collection, in order to enrich the content and diversity of objects presented to visitors of the Gallery of Icons-Ohrid.
Exhibition of fresco copies, church embroideries and liturgical items
Share this:
Post
Author
Muzej Ohrid
Posted on
June 25, 2017
March 2, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Exibitions
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
Summer School of Architecture
Next
Next post:
Monetary Circulation at Plaoshnik-Ohrid in the Roman Imperial Period
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid