URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/golden-faces-of-the-macedonian-kings-macedonians-and-celts-from-ohrid-region/

Golden faces of the Macedonian kings-Macedonians and Celts from Ohrid region – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Golden faces of the Macedonian kings-Macedonians and Celts from Ohrid region
24. 07. 2014 – 16. 11. 2014
Part of the valuable archaeological items found in the region of Ohrid on 24 July will be on display at this State Museum of Germany within the exhibition which will be opened by the end of this or at the beginning of  next month.
The exhibition consisting of 62 valuable artifacts originating from 5th to 3rd centuries b.c. that were found on the territory of our country during archaeological research, confirms the power of the Macedonian aristocracy, as well as contacts between prehistoric Central Celtic world and Mediterranean culture of imperial Macedonia between 6th and 2nd century b.c.
This is really an exceptional opportunity for visitors to learn about one of the most glorious periods of the Macedonian history.
The golden mask and glove, gold jewelry, coins, medallions 25 centuries old, the renown alabaster figure of Isis, vessels of pottery, bracelets, weapons, Celtic helmets and other items vividly tell the story of Macedonia, which is an integral part of the mosaic of the European civilization and culture. The artifacts are evidence of our cultural and historical identity; they represent the material truth about the development of civilization on Macedonian soil.
In Manching we will present three blocks of objects originating mainly from the city of Lychnidos on Ohrid Lake. There is the golden treasure from Trevnik, near Negotino and objects of Celts who gave their lives in defense of the citizens of Lychnidos.
The exhibition is organized by the Archaeological Museum of Macedoniain cooperation with institutions from Ohrid and Negotino, the Coastal University from Slovenia, Loshinj Museum from Croatia and Kelten-Römer-Museum. The project is funded by the European Union.
Exhibition “Golden faces of the Macedonian kings-Macedonians and Celts from Ohrid region” in Kelten-Römer-Museum in Manching, Germany
Share this:
Post
Author
go ri
Posted on
July 24, 2014
February 23, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Exibitions
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
Sounds of the chisel
Next
Next post:
“Clothes from klashna” and “Handwork”
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid