URL: https://muzejohrid.mk/inside-garden/

Inside garden – NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
Menu
Home
About Us
History
Organization
Publishing activity
Publications
Events
Current events Facebook
Archive of events
Event search
MUSEUM BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING “RADNICHKA”
House of Robev Family
Memorial House of Hristo Uzunov
Icon Gallery
Memorial House of Grigor Prlichev
Museum on Water
Museum and Cultural Center “Lapidarium”
Sanation, conservation and restoration of profane objects
SANATION, CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION OF SACRAL OBJECTS
COLLECTIONS
Archaeological collection
Icons, liturgical and other items
Collection of manuscripts
Historical collection
Contemporary art
Exhibitions
Icon gallery
Historical exhibition “National liberation movement in Ohrid”
Archaeological exhibition
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
Tsar Samuel’s Fortress
Antique Theater Ohrid
Plaoshnik
Polyconchal basilica at Plaoshnik
Early Christian basilica at the site “Manchevci”
Prehistoric settlement in the Bay of Bones near Gradishte on Ohrid Lake
Contact
Skip to content
Inside garden
30. 06. 2017 – 06. 07. 2017
The works of the Romanian painter Emilia Persu, after a pause of six years, are once again exhibited in Ohrid. On June 30, 2017, in the Robevci Art Gallery, an exhibition of this painter, who is part of the avant-garde artist generation from Romania, titled “Interior Garden” was opened. The exhibition presented the latest cycle of author’s works, made on canvas in combined technique.
Otherwise Emilia Persu is an artist and president of the graphic department at the Association of Artists of Romania.
She was born on February 21, 1963 in Bucharest, Romania, and graduated from the Faculty of Fine Arts, department of painting, also in Bucharest.
For the first time in front of the Ohrid audience, her paintings were presented in 2011 at an exhibition titled “Postmodern Levant”. The art lovers in many European countries had an opportunity to see her works of art and she has also participated in a number of camps, festivals and symposiums in Iraq, India, Morocco in St. Petersburg in Russia.
Exhibition “Inside Garden” of the Romanian artist Emilia Persu
Share this:
Post
Author
go ri
Posted on
June 2, 2017
February 23, 2023
Categories
Events
,
Exibitions
Post navigation
Previous
Previous post:
27th traditional exhibition on occasion of May 18th, the International Museum Day
Next
Next post:
Exhibition “Intaglio” from Print Nest Studio +
Search
Search for:
Search
Categories
Events
(43)
Exibitions
(27)
Lectures
(1)
Other
(7)
Presentations
(1)
Recent Events
The Forum of Slavic Cultures announces the winners of the 2025 Živa Awards – this year inTrebinje, Bosnia and Herzegovina
October 11, 2025
International Symposium on Mediterranean and Theoretical Archaeology – LYHNIDA
September 17, 2025
Book promotion: OHRID FORTRESS – Coins of the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire and their provinces (211 BC-238 AD)
May 19, 2025
Presentation of the GIS platform
December 15, 2024
Visit of the Austrian ambassador H.E. Martin Palmer
July 21, 2024
https://www.facebook.com/zavodimuzejohrid
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum – Ohrid
The main activity of this institution is the protection, conservation, restoration, revitalization, and presentation of immovable cultural heritage in Ohrid and the Ohrid region, as well as the collection, preservation, documentation, and presentation of movable cultural heritage, or the development of museum and gallery activities in this city.
About Us
|
Events
Contact
|
Facebook
© 2023 Завод за заштита на спомениците на културата и Музеј - Охрид
NI Institute for protection of monuments of culture and museum - Ohrid